There are many exciting things happening in Jehovah's organization.
On month after month, we read articles, watch videos, and hear personal experiences about
our brothers and sisters who are doing more for Jehovah.
They are serving with a need is greater, or reaching out for the school for Kingdom of
Angelizers.
They are working on construction, renovation, maintenance of Kingdom Halls, or other
Theocratic projects.
No doubt many of you watching this program are excitedly looking forward to expanding
your ministry in one of these areas.
We encourage you to do so.
You can be assured that you will receive much fulfillment and many blessings from Jehovah.
On the other hand, there are others who are watching this program who may feel discouraged
because their circumstances may seem to limit their being involved as they would
like.
What are some of these circumstances?
These may include our age, our health, our economic situation, or physical limitations.
For some of us, perhaps our upbringing, or past errors we have made in our life may cause
us to feel that we are limited as to what we can do for Jehovah.
As we know well, focusing on our limitations can affect our joy, causing discouragement.
What can we do?
There are many examples in the scriptures of men and women who had circumstances beyond
their control that seemed to limit how much they could do for Jehovah.
Others had to deal with the effects of their upbringing and family life, or with serious
errors they may.
Would they allow themselves to be limited by their circumstances or their past?
How did Jehovah feel about them?
How does Jehovah feel about us?
That is what we are going to discuss in this month's broadcast, which has the theme,
are you defined by your circumstances?
Let's start by looking at some who could have let their circumstances limit them.
Here's the first example of Joseph in the book of Genesis.
Now Joseph faced injustice at its worst.
His situation was especially hurtful since it was initially brought on by those who should
have been closest to him, his family.
As a slave in Egypt and later as a prisoner, Joseph was indeed limited in what he could
do.
How might Joseph have reacted?
What Joseph could have become so preoccupied with what he could not do that he lost sight
of what he could do?
Did Joseph let his circumstances paralyze his life?
No.
He chose to make the best of his situation.
In fact, note what Joseph did while serving as a slave in Potiphar's house, if we turn
together to Genesis chapter 39 and verse 4, Joseph kept finding favor in his eyes.
And he became his personal attendant.
So he appointed him over his house and he put him in charge of all that was his.
Joseph worked diligently within the limitations of his circumstances.
He took a similar approach while in prison.
At Joseph focused on what he could do despite suffering the effects of injustice.
As a second example, consider Hezekiah.
Now Hezekiah is one who might easily have felt that he was defined by his upbringing.
Look at the terrible example that was set by his father, Ahaz, as recorded in 2 Kings
chapter 16.
2 Kings chapter 16 and notice what verse 3 says about Ahaz.
Instead he walked in the way of the kings of Israel and he even made his own son pass
through the fire, following the detestable practices of the nations that Jehovah had
driven out from before the Israelites.
Hezekiah's father did detestable things in opposition to Jehovah.
But Hezekiah showed that he was not the helpless victim of a poor parental example.
What did he do?
Well turn in your Bibles to 2 Kings chapter 18 and notice verse 3.
What it says about Hezekiah, he kept doing what was right in Jehovah's eyes, just as David
his forefather had done.
Verse 5 says of Hezekiah, there was no one like him among all the kings of Judah.
He became fully involved in true worship.
Verses 6 and 7 says that Hezekiah held fast to Jehovah and Jehovah proved to be with
him.
How encouraging.
Hezekiah's example is for us.
We can choose to be loyal to Jehovah and do much in our worship of Jehovah even if we
did not grow up in a family that served Jehovah fully.
We are not helpless victims of our environment.
Hezekiah's example reassures us that our past does not have to control our future.
As a third example, consider the Apostle Paul.
He did not let his own past mistakes involving religious prejudice and violence stop him from
giving his all to Jehovah.
How did Paul feel about his past?
Well let's read together in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 9.
For I am the least of the Apostles and I am not worthy of being called an Apostle because
I persecuted the congregation of God.
I am the least of the Apostle.
Later when writing to the Ephesians, as recorded Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 8, he calls
himself less than the least of all the holy ones.
Finally, at 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 15, he now calls himself the foremost of all
sinners.
Yes, Paul's prior treatment of the congregation weighed heavily upon him.
But could Paul have reasoned that he was damaged?
Could he have reasoned that his past limited what he could do for Jehovah?
He could have, but Paul did not do that.
He poured himself out for the congregation.
Why Paul was privileged to write more books and letters in the Christian Greek scriptures
than anyone else?
He demonstrated an outstanding zeal for the ministry.
Paul did not let his conduct in the past dictate what he could do for Jehovah.
And there are many other examples as well.
For example, are we in a difficult economic situation?
The account of 2 Corinthians chapter 8 tells us about the Macedonians.
Paul says that they were in deep poverty, yet they begged to have a financial share in
the relief work.
Are we older in years?
We may think of Anna.
The account in Luke chapter 2 verses 36 to 38 tells us as she was 84 years old, and
that her husband had died after just seven years of marriage.
Yes, she was never missing from the temple.
She rendered sacred service day and night.
What lessons do we learn from these accounts?
Our dear brothers and sisters in Bible times were just like us.
Many were in circumstances that they would not have chosen, yet they did not let their
circumstances or their past to find them.
They joyfully did what they could within the limits of their situation.
And these are just a few examples.
There are many others in the Bible.
Why not make it a personal study project to research faithful ones who are in circumstances
similar to yours?
How did they stay involved in Jehovah's work?
We are sure that you will be greatly encouraged.
Now we've considered examples of those who did not let their circumstances hinder them
from giving their role to Jehovah.
But another question is, how does Jehovah view his faithful servants despite their limitations?
I've often thought about the example of John the baptizer.
As we know, he was arrested shortly after Jesus started his ministry.
John could have felt that he was no longer of use to Jehovah or the work.
Yet as recorded at Matthew 11 verse 11, Jesus said about John, among those born of women,
there has not been raised up anyone greater than John the Baptist.
Jehovah's and Jesus' view of John was not based on the man's circumstances of being
in prison.
Their view of John was based on who he was on the inside and on his relationship with
Jehovah.
Jehovah did not focus on the limitations.
In Jehovah's eyes, John was great.
He was still a faithful servant doing the best that he could.
And that was all that really matter.
Another example that may come to your mind is that of King David.
As we know, King David committed serious sins.
Yet David repented for his sins.
And there is no record that he repeated them.
How did Jehovah view him?
Did Jehovah see David as damaged as a man who would always be limited in serving him?
The hardest Jehovah's words directed to King Jeroboam at 1 Kings 14 and verse 8.
But you have not become like my servant, David, who kept my commandments and who walked
after me with all his heart, doing only what was right in my eyes.
Jehovah viewed David as a special servant.
He says he kept my commandments.
He did what was right in my eyes.
That's what Jehovah remembered.
How encouraging that is for us.
If we have repented of our past mistakes and set matters straight to the best of our circumstances,
we too can be assured that Jehovah loves us dearly.
He appreciates whatever we can do in our worship of him.
So what's the point?
All our past or our present circumstances do not define our value before Jehovah.
Our father loves us for who we are and he values our efforts as we do the best that
we can to serve him.
Why do you think it is important that we strive to see ourselves as Jehovah does?
Because we can weaken, discourage or limit ourselves if we see ourselves only in the
framework of our circumstances.
May we work hard not to do that.
What does Jehovah see when he looks at his faithful servants today?
Well, turn please to 1 Samuel, chapter 16 and verse 7.
And the setting is Samuel was about to go to anoint the next king of Israel and he goes
to the house of Jesse and Jesse lines up all of his sons except David who is still out
in the field and Samuel walks in and he sees a lie out.
And based on what he sees, Samuel concludes that this surely must be the next king of
Israel.
Yet note what Jehovah saw.
Please read with me, 1 Samuel, chapter 16 and verse 7.
But Jehovah said to Samuel, do not pay attention to his appearance and how tall he is where
I have rejected him.
For the way man sees is not the way God sees.
Because mere man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart.
That's the way Jehovah sees.
He does not look at our outward appearance and our abilities.
He sees into our heart.
He sees what we would be doing if all the limitations were lifted off of us.
Why just the fact that we keep going, that we keep putting one foot in front of another
endeers us to Jehovah?
We understand the truth of that statement and we all may agree that this is how Jehovah
views his people.
However, we may have a hard time convincing ourselves if this really applies to me.
Have you ever wondered does Jehovah really see me?
Does he see what's in my heart and value my desire to do more for him?
The answer is yes.
In fact, Jehovah has already seen what is in your heart.
Think about this.
Why are you watching this program?
But why do you care about spiritual things?
Why are you perhaps the only one in your family who is a dedicated baptized servant of Jehovah?
Or why are you perhaps the only one in your place of employment, or the only one near
where you live who's serving Jehovah?
Is it because you're so much more studious or smarter than everyone else?
No.
Agai chapter 2 and verse 7 tells us that Jehovah will shake all the nations and the precious
things of the nations will come in.
John chapter 6 verse 44 says that no man can come to Jesus unless the Father draws him.
Jeremiah chapter 31 verse 3, Jehovah says, I have loved you with an everlasting love.
That is why I have drawn you.
So again, why are you serving Jehovah?
Because Jehovah loves you.
Jehovah drew you as he was shaking the nations.
He looked down into your heart and he saw something very precious and he drew you to him.
He says, I want to draw this person to my son.
I want to draw this person to me.
I love this person.
Jehovah drew you, not because you had perfect circumstances, but because of your heart
and because he loves you.
He greatly appreciates that his servants give their best to him.
Remember not the way man sees is the way God sees.
Jehovah sees what the heart is.
May we work hard to see ourselves as Jehovah does and be determined to never give up.
May we never forget that it is the privilege of bearing Jehovah's name,
having a relationship with him and our love for Jehovah that defines us.
Jehovah is happy if we give the best that we can.
So may we do our part by not limiting ourselves due to our circumstances,
but always look for ways to give our best to Jehovah.
You beautiful older ones, even those with severe health problems,
can do much to help in the great work that's taking place today.
Now you may wonder, what can you do?
You can pray for your brothers and sisters.
We need your prayers.
Pray for the governing body.
Pray for those who are taking the lead.
Pray for the elders in your congregations.
Pray for those who are going through difficult times.
Do such prayers help the work of the organization?
Absolutely.
James chapter five in verse 16 tells us
that a righteous person's supplication has a powerful effect.
No matter who we are and whatever our situation in life,
may we find joy in giving what we can or Jehovah.
And may each one of us rejoice at the privilege we have
of being part of what Jehovah is accomplishing in these last days.